template/README.md, before:

# Obytes Mobile App

The project was created using [react-native-obytes-template](https://github.com/obytes/react-native-template-obytes)

## ▶️ Usage

1. [Setting up IOS and Android development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

2. Start working

```bash
## install deps
yarn

## install ios pods
yarn setup:ios

## ios
yarn ios

## android
yarn android

```

## ⚙️ Enable husky Git pre-hooks

Add the following script to your `packages.json` and reinstall dependencies to enable husky pre-commit using `yarn install`

```json
"scripts": {
    //...
     "postinstall": "husky install",
  },

```

## 📲 Update App Icon & Splash screen

Replace App logo template `logo.png` with your logo under `assets` folder

Run the following command to generate App icons assets :

```
yarn react-native set-icon  --path ./assets/logo.png --background "#FFF"

```

> For android icon, make sure to provide a logo with more padding and generate a new app icon for android :

```
yarn react-native set-icon  --platform android  --path ./assets/android_logo.png --background "#FFF"

```

To generate a standard splash screen using bootsplash package.

```sh
yarn react-native generate-bootsplash assets/logo.png \
  --background-color=FFFFFF \
  --logo-width=150 \
  --assets-path=assets
```

## ✏️ Custom fonts

Replace Inter.ttf font file with your fonts under `assets/fonts` folder

Run the following command to generate App icons assets :

```
yarn react-native link
```

More details [how to customize App Icon and Splash screen](https://handbook.obytes.com/docs/mobile/generate-app-icon)

## 📚 Read More About Modules

👉 https://handbook.obytes.com/docs/mobile/get-started

Commit message:

feat: add docs for github action build

template/README.md, after:

# Obytes Mobile App

The project was created using [react-native-obytes-template](https://github.com/obytes/react-native-template-obytes)

## ▶️ Usage

1. [Setting up IOS and Android development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

2. Start working

```bash
## install deps
yarn

## install ios pods
yarn setup:ios

## ios
yarn ios

## android
yarn android

```

## ⚙️ Enable husky Git pre-hooks

Add the following script to your `packages.json` and reinstall dependencies to enable husky pre-commit using `yarn install`

```json
"scripts": {
    //...
     "postinstall": "husky install",
  },

```

## 📲 Update App Icon & Splash screen

Replace App logo template `logo.png` with your logo under `assets` folder

Run the following command to generate App icons assets :

```
yarn react-native set-icon  --path ./assets/logo.png --background "#FFF"

```

> For android icon, make sure to provide a logo with more padding and generate a new app icon for android :

```
yarn react-native set-icon  --platform android  --path ./assets/android_logo.png --background "#FFF"

```

To generate a standard splash screen using bootsplash package.

```sh
yarn react-native generate-bootsplash assets/logo.png \
  --background-color=FFFFFF \
  --logo-width=150 \
  --assets-path=assets
```

## ✏️ Custom fonts

Replace Inter.ttf font file with your fonts under `assets/fonts` folder

Run the following command to generate App icons assets :

```
yarn react-native link
```

More details [how to customize App Icon and Splash screen](https://handbook.obytes.com/docs/mobile/generate-app-icon)

## Releasing and building the app with Github action

👉 https://handbook.obytes.com/docs/mobile/ci-cd/github-action-build

## 📚 Read More About Modules

👉 https://handbook.obytes.com/docs/mobile/get-started
