docs/docs/ui-and-theme/ui-theming.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Card from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/screens/feed/card';
import  useThemeConfig  from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/navigation/use-theme-config';
import NavigationContainer from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/navigation/navigation-container';
import useSelectedTheme from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/core/hooks/use-selected-theme';

# UI and Theming

How we manage the UI and theming of the application.

## Why [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) ?

For the past few years we tried multiple approach to style our react native apps,Stylesheet API, styled components, restyle and more.

Right now we are confident that using Tailwind CSS with react native is the right solution specially after we try [Nativewind](https://nativewind.dev/).

If you are familiar with Tailwind CSS on the web you will find it very easy to use and you can even copy past your styling from a web application and should work without issues with react native too with some minor adjustments of course.

Last and not least, Tailwind CSS was a natural choice for us knowing that most of our team members are coming from a web background and they had the chance to work with Tailwind CSS before.

:::tip

If you are not familiar with Tailwind CSS, we recommend you to read the [Tailwind CSS documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) first.

We would also recommend playing with the [Tailwind CSS playground](https://play.tailwindcss.com/) to get a better understanding of how it works as well as practicing by building a simple web app with it before jumping into react native.

:::

## About Nativewind

Nativewind is a library that allows you to use Tailwind CSS with react native. Nativewind achieves this by pre-compiling the Tailwind CSS classes into react native stylesheets with a minimal runtime to selectively apply the styles.

Nativewind comes with different babel configuration options but we are using `compile only` configuration which means that you need to create your own component and warp them with `styled` component from Nativewind to use them with Tailwind class names.

This approach give us more control over the component we want to style as we don't want Nativewind babel plugin to transform all the components in our application.

For more details about Nativewind you can check their [documentation](https://www.nativewind.dev/overview/).

Here is an example of how your component should look like:

<CodeBlock title="Card Component" language="tsx">
  {Card}
</CodeBlock>

You guess it right, all components imported from `@/ui` are wrapped with `styled` component from Nativewind and ready to accept Tailwind CSS class names. Enjoy 🥳

## Configuration

Nativewind is the same as Tailwind CSS, it comes with a default theme and colors that you can override by creating your own theme and colors.

You need to understand that Nativewind is a library that is built on top of Tailwind CSS. Feel free to add any Tailwind CSS config that you want to use in your application such as updating colors, spacing, typography, etc.

We have created a `ui/theme` folder when you can finds our Custom colors that has been imported to `tailwind.config.js` and used as a theme for our demo application. You can add your own colors palette and use them in your component with Tailwind class names.

You can read more about how to [configure your project with Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration).

## Dark Mode

### Why dark mode ?
Dark mode has gained significant traction in recent years and it become an expected feature to have.
By applying dark mode,it will make it easier on the eyes in low-light environments and reduces the eye strain, which mean more time on your app.

this template comes with dark mode support out of the box, and it's very easy customize the color scheme of your app. thanks to [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/dark-mode)


### Implementation

Since we’re using [nativewind](https://www.nativewind.dev/) (that use Tailwind CSS under the hood) and react-navigation we let them handle applying it ,and we just take care of the colors we want .  
we set the colors in `ui/theme/colors.js`  and we use them in our hook `useThemeConfig.tsx`  to get the theme object that we pass to react-navigation container. for more information check out [react-navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/themes/)

<CodeBlock title="useThemeConfig.tsx" language="tsx">
  {useThemeConfig}
</CodeBlock>


<CodeBlock title="NavigationContainer" language="tsx">
  {NavigationContainer}
</CodeBlock>


### how we handle theme changing?

we use `loadSelectedTheme` function to load the theme from the storage if there's a theme saved in the storage, otherwise we let nativwind use the default theme (system).
and for setting selected theme we use `useSelectedTheme` hook to set the theme in the storage and update the color scheme of the app.
 
<CodeBlock title="loading the theme and set the selected" language="tsx">
  {useSelectedTheme}
</CodeBlock>

### Add dark mode for each component 

to add the values for the light mode you can simply write them direlty in your component class and for the dark mode you can use the **dark:** variant.

``` tsx
	<View className='... border-neutral-200 dark:border-yellow-700'>	
		....
	</View>
```
if you want to use style prop you can use the `useColorScheme` hook to get the current color scheme and use it to apply the style you want but **for the most of the cases you don't need it** dark: variant will do the job for you.
  
  ``` tsx
  import { useColorScheme } from 'nativewind';

  const colorScheme = useColorScheme();
  const style = colorScheme === 'dark' ? { backgroundColor: 'black' } : { backgroundColor: 'white' };
  
  ```
  for more details about dark mode you can check [tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/dark-mode)   and [nativewind](https://www.nativewind.dev/core-concepts/dark-mode)

Commit message:

chore: add showcase  video and fix grammar

docs/docs/ui-and-theme/ui-theming.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Card from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/screens/feed/card';
import  useThemeConfig  from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/navigation/use-theme-config';
import NavigationContainer from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/navigation/navigation-container';
import useSelectedTheme from '!!raw-loader!../../../src/core/hooks/use-selected-theme';

# UI and Theming

How we manage the UI and theming of the application.

## Why [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) ?

For the past few years we tried multiple approach to style our react native apps,Stylesheet API, styled components, restyle and more.

Right now we are confident that using Tailwind CSS with react native is the right solution specially after we try [Nativewind](https://nativewind.dev/).

If you are familiar with Tailwind CSS on the web you will find it very easy to use and you can even copy past your styling from a web application and should work without issues with react native too with some minor adjustments of course.

Last and not least, Tailwind CSS was a natural choice for us knowing that most of our team members are coming from a web background and they had the chance to work with Tailwind CSS before.

:::tip

If you are not familiar with Tailwind CSS, we recommend you to read the [Tailwind CSS documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) first.

We would also recommend playing with the [Tailwind CSS playground](https://play.tailwindcss.com/) to get a better understanding of how it works as well as practicing by building a simple web app with it before jumping into react native.

:::

## About Nativewind

Nativewind is a library that allows you to use Tailwind CSS with react native. Nativewind achieves this by pre-compiling the Tailwind CSS classes into react native stylesheets with a minimal runtime to selectively apply the styles.

Nativewind comes with different babel configuration options but we are using `compile only` configuration which means that you need to create your own component and warp them with `styled` component from Nativewind to use them with Tailwind class names.

This approach give us more control over the component we want to style as we don't want Nativewind babel plugin to transform all the components in our application.

For more details about Nativewind you can check their [documentation](https://www.nativewind.dev/overview/).

Here is an example of how your component should look like:

<CodeBlock title="Card Component" language="tsx">
  {Card}
</CodeBlock>

You guess it right, all components imported from `@/ui` are wrapped with `styled` component from Nativewind and ready to accept Tailwind CSS class names. Enjoy 🥳

## Configuration

Nativewind is the same as Tailwind CSS, it comes with a default theme and colors that you can override by creating your own theme and colors.

You need to understand that Nativewind is a library that is built on top of Tailwind CSS. Feel free to add any Tailwind CSS config that you want to use in your application such as updating colors, spacing, typography, etc.

We have created a `ui/theme` folder when you can finds our Custom colors that has been imported to `tailwind.config.js` and used as a theme for our demo application. You can add your own colors palette and use them in your component with Tailwind class names.

You can read more about how to [configure your project with Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration).

## Dark Mode

<video controls height="600">
  <source src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/11137944/238315572-37620367-b639-417e-a802-c48a3d7566ba.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

### Why dark mode ?

Dark mode has gained significant traction in recent years and has become an expected feature to have.
By applying dark mode, it makes it easier on the eyes in low-light environments and reduces eye strain, which means more time spent on your app.

This template comes with dark mode support out of the box, and it's very easy to customize the color scheme of your app. Thanks to [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/dark-mode)


### Implementation

Since we're using [nativewind](https://www.nativewind.dev/) (which uses Tailwind CSS under the hood) and react-navigation we let them handle the application of theme ,and we just take care of the colors we want .  
We set the colors in `ui/theme/colors.js`  and we use them in our hook `useThemeConfig.tsx`  to get the theme object that we pass to react-navigation container. For more information check out [react-navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/docs/themes/)


<CodeBlock title="useThemeConfig.tsx" language="tsx">
  {useThemeConfig}
</CodeBlock>


<CodeBlock title="NavigationContainer" language="tsx">
  {NavigationContainer}
</CodeBlock>


### How we handle theme changing?

We use the `loadSelectedTheme` function to load the theme from the storage if there's a theme saved in the storage, otherwise we let nativwind use the default theme (system).  
To set the selected theme, we use the `useSelectedTheme` hook, which  set the theme in the storage and update the color scheme of the app.


<CodeBlock title="loading the theme and set the selected" language="tsx">
  {useSelectedTheme}
</CodeBlock>

### Add dark mode for each component 

To add the values for the light mode, you can simply write them directly in your component class. For the dark mode, you can use the **dark:** variant.

``` tsx
	<View className='... border-neutral-200 dark:border-yellow-700'>	
		....
	</View>
```
If you want to use the style prop, you can use the `useColorScheme` hook to get the current color scheme and use it to apply the desired style. However, **in most cases, you won't need it** as the dark: variant will do the job.
  
  ``` tsx
  import { useColorScheme } from 'nativewind';

  const colorScheme = useColorScheme();
  const style = colorScheme === 'dark' ? { backgroundColor: 'black' } : { backgroundColor: 'white' };
  
  ```
  For more details about dark mode you can check [tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/dark-mode)   and [nativewind](https://www.nativewind.dev/core-concepts/dark-mode)
